# Gigapixel-Tools
Python scripts for optimizing the stitching of gigapixel panoramas

Vignetting Correction: Even very slight vignetting can be recognizable as band structure (e.g. dark bands in an otherwise homogeneously blue sky) in a panorama image. This python script performs vignetting correction on 16-bit TIFF images. A vignetting mask is determined from calibration images showing the blue sky only. Therefore you will need a sufficiently large set
of calibration images, that allow you to calculate the vignetting mask by averaging. You can simply get this set by shooting the blue sky using the same camera settings like with your panorama fotos. Avoid large intensity gradients,clouds and over exposure.

Loose Tile arrangement: This python script  maybe useful for you if you use a motorized panorama head. Typically you acquire a set of regularly arranged image tiles. PTGUI cannot find control points in images showing sky only and neither in blurred images (which you often have in the foreground, if you should landscape panoramas at a long focal length). Such loose tiles (without any links to neighboring images), can be misplaced (with respect to the large bunch of linked images) after the optimization process. Loose Tile arrangement fixes the grid arrangement and puts loose tiles at an appropriate position next to their interlinked neighboring tiles.  All you need to do  is to load an optimized PTGUI project file, in which the tiles should be well interconnected (at least a few tiles per column). The the script will be able to extract  loose tiles position from the position of the interconnenected tiles in the same column an in the neighboring columns. The script calculates the images positions and rewrites a modified project file which can be loaded by PTGUI.
